README.rst, before:

neattext
========

NeatText:a simple NLP package for cleaning textual data and text
preprocessing

|Build Status|

|GitHub license|

Problem
-------

-  Cleaning of unstructured text data
-  Reduce noise [special characters,stopwords]
-  Reducing repetition of using the same code for text preprocessing

Solution
--------

-  convert the already known solution for cleaning text into a reuseable
   package

Installation
------------

.. code:: bash

    pip install neattext

Usage
-----

-  The OOP Way(Object Oriented Way)
-  NeatText offers 4 main classes for working with text data

   -  TextFrame : a frame-like object for cleaning text
   -  TextCleaner: remove or replace specifics
   -  TextExtractor: extract unwanted text data
   -  TextMetrics: word stats and metrics

Using TextFrame
---------------

-  Keeps the text as ``TextFrame`` object. This allows us to do more
   with our text.
-  It inherits the benefits of the TextCleaner and the TextMetrics out
   of the box with some additional features for handling text data.
-  This is the simplest way for text preprocessing with this library
   alternatively you can utilize the other classes too.

.. code:: python

    >>> import neattext as nt 
    >> mytext = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
    >>> docx = nt.TextFrame(text=mytext)
    >>> docx.text 
    "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
    >>>
    >>> docx.describe()
    Key      Value          
    Length  : 73             
    vowels  : 21             
    consonants: 34             
    stopwords: 4              
    punctuations: 8              
    special_char: 8              
    tokens(whitespace): 10             
    tokens(words): 14             
    >>> 
    >>> docx.length
    73
    >>> # Scan Percentage of Noise(Unclean data) in text
    >>> d.noise_scan()
    {'text_noise': 19.17808219178082, 'text_length': 73, 'noise_count': 14}
    >>> 
    >>> docs.head(16)
    'This is the mail'
    >>> docx.tail()
    >>> docx.count_vowels()
    >>> docx.count_stopwords()
    >>> docx.count_consonants()
    >>> docx.nlongest()
    >>> docx.nshortest()
    >>> docx.readability()

Basic NLP Task (Tokenization,Ngram,Text Generation)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.word_tokens()
    >>>
    >>> docx.sent_tokens()
    >>>
    >>> docx.term_freq()
    >>>
    >>> docx.bow()

Basic Text Preprocessing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.normalize()
    'this is the mail example@gmail.com ,our website is https://example.com 😊.'
    >>> docx.normalize(level='deep')
    'this is the mail examplegmailcom our website is httpsexamplecom '

    >>> docx.remove_puncts()
    >>> docx.remove_html_tags()
    >>> docx.remove_special_characters()
    >>> docx.remove_emojis()
    >>> docx.fix_contractions()

Handling Files with NeatText
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Read txt file directly into TextFrame

   .. code:: python

       >>> import neattext as nt 
       >>> docx_df = nt.read_txt('file.txt')

-  Alternatively you can instantiate a TextFrame and read a text file
   into it

   .. code:: python

       >>> import neattext as nt 
       >>> docx_df = nt.TextFrame().read_txt('file.txt')

Chaining Methods on TextFrame
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    >>> t1 = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊 and it will cost $100 to subscribe."
    >>> docx = TextFrame(t1)
    >>> result = docx.remove_emails().remove_urls().remove_emojis()
    >>> print(result)
    'This is the mail  ,our WEBSITE is   and it will cost $100 to subscribe.'

Clean Text
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Clean text by removing emails,numbers,stopwords,emojis,etc
-  A simplify method for cleaning text by specifying as True/False what
   to clean from a text

   .. code:: python

       >>> from neattext.functions import clean_text
       >>> 
       >>> mytext = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
       >>> 
       >>> clean_text(mytext)
       'mail example@gmail.com ,our website https://example.com .'

-  You can remove
   punctuations,stopwords,urls,emojis,multiple\_whitespaces,etc by
   setting them to True.

-  You can choose to remove or not remove punctuations by setting to
   True/False respectively

.. code:: python

    >>> clean_text(mytext,puncts=True)
    'mail example@gmailcom website https://examplecom '
    >>> 
    >>> clean_text(mytext,puncts=False)
    'mail example@gmail.com ,our website https://example.com .'
    >>> 
    >>> clean_text(mytext,puncts=False,stopwords=False)
    'this is the mail example@gmail.com ,our website is https://example.com .'
    >>> 

-  You can also remove the other non-needed items accordingly
   \`\`\`python >>> clean\_text(mytext,stopwords=False) 'this is the
   mail example@gmail.com ,our website is https://example.com .' >>> >>>
   clean\_text(mytext,urls=False) 'mail example@gmail.com ,our website
   https://example.com .' >>> >>> clean\_text(mytext,urls=True) 'mail
   example@gmail.com ,our website .' >>>

\`\`\`

Remove Punctuations [A Very Common Text Preprocessing Step]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  You remove the most common punctuations such as
   fullstop,comma,exclamation marks and question marks by setting
   most\_common=True which is the default
-  Alternatively you can also remove all known punctuations from a text.
   \`\`\`python >>> import neattext as nt >>> mytext = "This is the mail
   example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊. Please don't
   forget the email when you enter !!!!!" >>> docx =
   nt.TextFrame(mytext) >>> docx.remove\_puncts() TextFrame(text="This
   is the mail example@gmailcom our WEBSITE is https://examplecom 😊
   Please dont forget the email when you enter ")

            docx.remove\_puncts(most\_common=False) TextFrame(text="This
            is the mail examplegmailcom our WEBSITE is httpsexamplecom 😊
            Please dont forget the email when you enter ") \`\`\`

Remove Emails,Numbers,Phone Numbers,Dates,etc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> print(docx.remove_emails())
    >>> 'This is the mail  ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊.'
    >>>
    >>> print(docx.remove_stopwords())
    >>> 'This mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE https://example.com 😊.'
    >>>
    >>> print(docx.remove_numbers())
    >>> docx.remove_phone_numbers()

Remove Special Characters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.remove_special_characters()

Remove Emojis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> print(docx.remove_emojis())
    >>> 'This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com .'

Replace Emails,Numbers,Phone Numbers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.replace_emails()
    >>> docx.replace_numbers()
    >>> docx.replace_phone_numbers()

Chain Multiple Methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> t1 = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊 and it will cost $100 to subscribe."
    >>> docx = TextCleaner(t1)
    >>> result = docx.remove_emails().remove_urls().remove_emojis()
    >>> print(result)
    'This is the mail  ,our WEBSITE is   and it will cost $100 to subscribe.'

Using TextExtractor
-------------------

-  To Extract emails,phone numbers,numbers,urls,emojis from text

   .. code:: python

       >>> from neattext import TextExtractor
       >>> docx = TextExtractor()
       >>> docx.text = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
       >>> docx.extract_emails()
       >>> ['example@gmail.com']
       >>>
       >>> docx.extract_emojis()
       >>> ['😊']

Using TextMetrics
-----------------

-  To Find the Words Stats such as counts of
   vowels,consonants,stopwords,word-stats

   .. code:: python

       >>> from neattext import TextMetrics
       >>> docx = TextMetrics()
       >>> docx.text = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
       >>> docx.count_vowels()
       >>> docx.count_consonants()
       >>> docx.count_stopwords()
       >>> docx.word_stats()

Usage
-----

-  The MOP(method/function oriented way) Way

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.functions import clean_text,extract_emails
    >>> t1 = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com ."
    >>> clean_text(t1,puncts=True,stopwords=True)
    >>>'this mail examplegmailcom website httpsexamplecom'
    >>> extract_emails(t1)
    >>> ['example@gmail.com']

Explainer
---------

-  Explain an emoji or unicode for emoji

   -  emoji\_explainer()
   -  emojify()
   -  unicode\_2\_emoji()

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.explainer import emojify
    >>> emojify('Smiley')
    >>> '😃'

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.explainer import emoji_explainer
    >>> emoji_explainer('😃')
    >>> 'SMILING FACE WITH OPEN MOUTH'

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.explainer import unicode_2_emoji
    >>> unicode_2_emoji('0x1f49b')
        'FLUSHED FACE'

Documentation
-------------

Please read the
`documentation <https://github.com/Jcharis/neattext/wiki>`__ for more
information on what neattext does and how to use is for your needs.

More Features To Add
--------------------

-  basic nlp task
-  currency normalizer

Acknowledgements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Inspired by packages like ``clean-text`` from Johannes Fillter and
   ``textify`` by JCharisTech

NB
~~

-  Contributions Are Welcomed
-  Notice a bug, please let us know.
-  Thanks A lot

By
~~

-  Jesse E.Agbe(JCharis)
-  Jesus Saves @JCharisTech

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/Jcharis/neattext.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/Jcharis/neattext
.. |GitHub license| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/Jcharis/neattext
   :target: https://github.com/Jcharis/neattext/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

Fixed Bugs and Added More Stopwords Support

README.rst, after:

neattext
========

NeatText:a simple NLP package for cleaning textual data and text
preprocessing

|Build Status|

|GitHub license|

Problem
-------

-  Cleaning of unstructured text data
-  Reduce noise [special characters,stopwords]
-  Reducing repetition of using the same code for text preprocessing

Solution
--------

-  convert the already known solution for cleaning text into a reuseable
   package

Installation
------------

.. code:: bash

    pip install neattext

Usage
-----

-  The OOP Way(Object Oriented Way)
-  NeatText offers 4 main classes for working with text data

   -  TextFrame : a frame-like object for cleaning text
   -  TextCleaner: remove or replace specifics
   -  TextExtractor: extract unwanted text data
   -  TextMetrics: word stats and metrics

Overall Components of NeatText
------------------------------

.. figure:: images/neattext_features_jcharistech.png
   :alt: 

Using TextFrame
---------------

-  Keeps the text as ``TextFrame`` object. This allows us to do more
   with our text.
-  It inherits the benefits of the TextCleaner and the TextMetrics out
   of the box with some additional features for handling text data.
-  This is the simplest way for text preprocessing with this library
   alternatively you can utilize the other classes too.

.. code:: python

    >>> import neattext as nt 
    >> mytext = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
    >>> docx = nt.TextFrame(text=mytext)
    >>> docx.text 
    "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
    >>>
    >>> docx.describe()
    Key      Value          
    Length  : 73             
    vowels  : 21             
    consonants: 34             
    stopwords: 4              
    punctuations: 8              
    special_char: 8              
    tokens(whitespace): 10             
    tokens(words): 14             
    >>> 
    >>> docx.length
    73
    >>> # Scan Percentage of Noise(Unclean data) in text
    >>> d.noise_scan()
    {'text_noise': 19.17808219178082, 'text_length': 73, 'noise_count': 14}
    >>> 
    >>> docs.head(16)
    'This is the mail'
    >>> docx.tail()
    >>> docx.count_vowels()
    >>> docx.count_stopwords()
    >>> docx.count_consonants()
    >>> docx.nlongest()
    >>> docx.nshortest()
    >>> docx.readability()

Basic NLP Task (Tokenization,Ngram,Text Generation)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.word_tokens()
    >>>
    >>> docx.sent_tokens()
    >>>
    >>> docx.term_freq()
    >>>
    >>> docx.bow()

Basic Text Preprocessing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.normalize()
    'this is the mail example@gmail.com ,our website is https://example.com 😊.'
    >>> docx.normalize(level='deep')
    'this is the mail examplegmailcom our website is httpsexamplecom '

    >>> docx.remove_puncts()
    >>> docx.remove_stopwords()
    >>> docx.remove_html_tags()
    >>> docx.remove_special_characters()
    >>> docx.remove_emojis()
    >>> docx.fix_contractions()

Handling Files with NeatText
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Read txt file directly into TextFrame

   .. code:: python

       >>> import neattext as nt 
       >>> docx_df = nt.read_txt('file.txt')

-  Alternatively you can instantiate a TextFrame and read a text file
   into it

   .. code:: python

       >>> import neattext as nt 
       >>> docx_df = nt.TextFrame().read_txt('file.txt')

Chaining Methods on TextFrame
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: python

    >>> t1 = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊 and it will cost $100 to subscribe."
    >>> docx = TextFrame(t1)
    >>> result = docx.remove_emails().remove_urls().remove_emojis()
    >>> print(result)
    'This is the mail  ,our WEBSITE is   and it will cost $100 to subscribe.'

Clean Text
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Clean text by removing emails,numbers,stopwords,emojis,etc
-  A simplified method for cleaning text by specifying as True/False
   what to clean from a text

   .. code:: python

       >>> from neattext.functions import clean_text
       >>> 
       >>> mytext = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
       >>> 
       >>> clean_text(mytext)
       'mail example@gmail.com ,our website https://example.com .'

-  You can remove
   punctuations,stopwords,urls,emojis,multiple\_whitespaces,etc by
   setting them to True.

-  You can choose to remove or not remove punctuations by setting to
   True/False respectively

.. code:: python

    >>> clean_text(mytext,puncts=True)
    'mail example@gmailcom website https://examplecom '
    >>> 
    >>> clean_text(mytext,puncts=False)
    'mail example@gmail.com ,our website https://example.com .'
    >>> 
    >>> clean_text(mytext,puncts=False,stopwords=False)
    'this is the mail example@gmail.com ,our website is https://example.com .'
    >>> 

-  You can also remove the other non-needed items accordingly
   \`\`\`python >>> clean\_text(mytext,stopwords=False) 'this is the
   mail example@gmail.com ,our website is https://example.com .' >>> >>>
   clean\_text(mytext,urls=False) 'mail example@gmail.com ,our website
   https://example.com .' >>> >>> clean\_text(mytext,urls=True) 'mail
   example@gmail.com ,our website .' >>>

\`\`\`

Removing Punctuations [A Very Common Text Preprocessing Step]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  You remove the most common punctuations such as
   fullstop,comma,exclamation marks and question marks by setting
   most\_common=True which is the default
-  Alternatively you can also remove all known punctuations from a text.
   \`\`\`python >>> import neattext as nt >>> mytext = "This is the mail
   example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊. Please don't
   forget the email when you enter !!!!!" >>> docx =
   nt.TextFrame(mytext) >>> docx.remove\_puncts() TextFrame(text="This
   is the mail example@gmailcom our WEBSITE is https://examplecom 😊
   Please dont forget the email when you enter ")

            docx.remove\_puncts(most\_common=False) TextFrame(text="This
            is the mail examplegmailcom our WEBSITE is httpsexamplecom 😊
            Please dont forget the email when you enter ") \`\`\`

Removing Stopwords [A Very Common Text Preprocessing Step]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  You can remove stopwords from a text by specifying the language. The
   default language is English
-  Supported Languages include
   English(en),Spanish(es),French(fr)\|Russian(ru)\|Yoruba(yo)\|German(de)

.. code:: python

    >>> import neattext as nt 
    >>> mytext = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊. Please don't forget the email when you enter !!!!!"
    >>> docx = nt.TextFrame(mytext)
    >>> docx.remove_stopwords(lang='en')
    TextFrame(text="mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE https://example.com 😊. forget email enter !!!!!")

Remove Emails,Numbers,Phone Numbers,Dates,etc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> print(docx.remove_emails())
    >>> 'This is the mail  ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊.'
    >>>
    >>> print(docx.remove_stopwords())
    >>> 'This mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE https://example.com 😊.'
    >>>
    >>> print(docx.remove_numbers())
    >>> docx.remove_phone_numbers()

Remove Special Characters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.remove_special_characters()

Remove Emojis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> print(docx.remove_emojis())
    >>> 'This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com .'

Replace Emails,Numbers,Phone Numbers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> docx.replace_emails()
    >>> docx.replace_numbers()
    >>> docx.replace_phone_numbers()

Chain Multiple Methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    >>> t1 = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊 and it will cost $100 to subscribe."
    >>> docx = TextCleaner(t1)
    >>> result = docx.remove_emails().remove_urls().remove_emojis()
    >>> print(result)
    'This is the mail  ,our WEBSITE is   and it will cost $100 to subscribe.'

Using TextExtractor
-------------------

-  To Extract emails,phone numbers,numbers,urls,emojis from text

   .. code:: python

       >>> from neattext import TextExtractor
       >>> docx = TextExtractor()
       >>> docx.text = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
       >>> docx.extract_emails()
       >>> ['example@gmail.com']
       >>>
       >>> docx.extract_emojis()
       >>> ['😊']

Using TextMetrics
-----------------

-  To Find the Words Stats such as counts of
   vowels,consonants,stopwords,word-stats

   .. code:: python

       >>> from neattext import TextMetrics
       >>> docx = TextMetrics()
       >>> docx.text = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com 😊."
       >>> docx.count_vowels()
       >>> docx.count_consonants()
       >>> docx.count_stopwords()
       >>> docx.word_stats()

Usage
-----

-  The MOP(method/function oriented way) Way

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.functions import clean_text,extract_emails
    >>> t1 = "This is the mail example@gmail.com ,our WEBSITE is https://example.com ."
    >>> clean_text(t1,puncts=True,stopwords=True)
    >>>'this mail examplegmailcom website httpsexamplecom'
    >>> extract_emails(t1)
    >>> ['example@gmail.com']

Explainer
---------

-  Explain an emoji or unicode for emoji

   -  emoji\_explainer()
   -  emojify()
   -  unicode\_2\_emoji()

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.explainer import emojify
    >>> emojify('Smiley')
    >>> '😃'

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.explainer import emoji_explainer
    >>> emoji_explainer('😃')
    >>> 'SMILING FACE WITH OPEN MOUTH'

.. code:: python

    >>> from neattext.explainer import unicode_2_emoji
    >>> unicode_2_emoji('0x1f49b')
        'FLUSHED FACE'

Documentation
-------------

Please read the
`documentation <https://github.com/Jcharis/neattext/wiki>`__ for more
information on what neattext does and how to use is for your needs.

More Features To Add
--------------------

-  basic nlp task
-  currency normalizer

Acknowledgements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Inspired by packages like ``clean-text`` from Johannes Fillter and
   ``textify`` by JCharisTech

NB
~~

-  Contributions Are Welcomed
-  Notice a bug, please let us know.
-  Thanks A lot

By
~~

-  Jesse E.Agbe(JCharis)
-  Jesus Saves @JCharisTech

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/Jcharis/neattext.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/Jcharis/neattext
.. |GitHub license| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/Jcharis/neattext
   :target: https://github.com/Jcharis/neattext/blob/master/LICENSE
